Scalingdocs (#203)
elastic/ingest-docs: docs/en/ingest-management/elastic-agent/scaling-on-kubernetes.asciidoc

[[scaling-on-kubernetes]]
= Scaling {agent} on kubernetes

> - Please follow the steps to run the {agent} on <<running-on-kubernetes-managed-by-fleet>> page.

Reviewer: Can we be more verbose here with what we mean? Sth like "In order to first deploy Elastic Agent on k8s follow the steps at X....."

Author: Check latest commit and let me know if u agree

- Please follow the steps to run the {agent} on <<running-on-kubernetes-standalone>> page.

[discrete]
== Observability under scale

> Using https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/welcome-to-elastic/current/getting-started-kubernetes.html[Elastic Observability] to monitor Kubernetes infrastructure at scale, imposes a higher complexity in order to configure and adjust Elastic Stack based on different kubernetes sizes. The Horizontal Pod scaling changes the shape of your Kubernetes workload by automatically increasing or decreasing the number of Pods, thus this will impact the following:

Reviewer: Why do we care about Pod autoscaler here? 
I wouldn't expect to read about this at all. The key point here is that when we have large k8s cluster (Nodes+Pods) we face the following.

Author: Ok updated. Check latest commit and let me know if u agree

- The amount of metrics being collected from several kubernetes endpoints
- The agent's resources to cope up with the higher CPU and Memory needed for internal processesing
- The ElasticSearch resources due to higher rate of metric ingestion needs
- The Dashboard's Visualisations response times as more data are requested on a given time window 

[discrete]
== Configure Agent Resources

The kubernetes observability is based on https://docs.elastic.co/en/integrations/kubernetes[kubernetes integration], which is fetching metrics from several components:

- **Per node:**
  - kubelet
  - controller-manager
  - scheduler
  - proxy

> - **Cluster Wide (i.e. correspond to the whole cluster):**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Cluster Wide (i.e. unique metrics for the whole cluster):**
```

  - kube-state-metrics
  - apiserver

> The Elastic Agent manifest is deployed by default as daemonset. That said, each elastic agent by default is being deployed on every node of kubernetes cluster. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Elastic Agent manifest is deployed by default as daemonset. That said, each elastic agent by default is being deployed on every node of the Kubernetes cluster. 
```

> Additionally by default, one agent is elected as **leader**(more info <<kubernetes_leaderelection-provider>>) in our https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/blob/main/deploy/kubernetes/elastic-agent-standalone-kubernetes.yaml#L32[manifests] and this will be responsbile for also collecting the cluster wide metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, by default one agent is elected as **leader**(for more information visit <<kubernetes_leaderelection-provider>>). This is configured in our https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/blob/main/deploy/kubernetes/elastic-agent-standalone-kubernetes.yaml#L32[manifests]. The Agent Pod which holds the leadership lock will be responsible for also collecting the cluster wide metrics in addition to its node's metrics.
```

--
[role="screenshot"]
image::../images/k8sscaling.png[Agent as daemonset]
--

> Above schema explains how {agent} collect and send metrics to ElasticSearch. Because Leader Agent is responsible to collect also cluster wide metrics this means that requires additional resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above schema explains how {agent} collects and sends metrics to Elasticsearch. Because of Leader Agent being responsible to also collecting cluster-lever metrics, this means that it requires additional resources.
```

> Daemonset installation simplify the installation of {agent} because we specify less kubernetes resource types inside the manifest and it is the only supported way of <<running-on-kubernetes-managed-by-fleet, managed Elastic Agent scenario>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Daemonset deployment approach simplifies the installation of the {agent} because we define less Kubernetes Resources in our manifest and we only need one single Agent policy for our Agents. Hence it is the only supported way of <<running-on-kubernetes-managed-by-fleet, managed Elastic Agent scenario>>
```

Based on our tests, the following table provides guidelines to adjust {agent} limits on diffrent kubernetes sizes:

|===
| No of Pods in K8s Cluster | Leader Agent Resources | Rest of Agents 
| 1000   | cpu: "1500m",  memory: "800Mi" | cpu: "300m",  memory: "600Mi" 
| 3000   | cpu: "2000m",  memory: "1000Mi" | cpu: "400m",  memory: "800Mi" 
| 5000   | cpu: "3000m",  memory: "2500Mi" | cpu: "500m",  memory: "900Mi" 
| 10000  | cpu: "3400m",  memory: "4500Mi" | cpu: "700m",  memory: "1000Mi" 
|===

> > Above tests run with {agent} version 8.7 and scraping period of 10sec in Kubernetes Policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The above tests' results came from using {agent} version 8.7 and setting the scraping period to 10sec in the Kubernetes Policy
```

Author: Still reviewing this results and will include 8.8 with TSDB  I think only
I

[discrete]

> === Specifying resource and limits in agent manifests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Specifying resources and limits in Agent manifests
```

> Based on our tests we advise to configure only limit resources in the manifest. This way `request` resources will fall back  and equal to the limits specified. The `limits` is the upper bound limit of your microservice process, meaning that can operate in less resources and protect kubenretes to assign bigger usage and protect from possible resource exhaustion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on our tests we advise to configure only the `limit` section of the `resources` section in the manifest. In this way the `request`'s settings of the `resources` will fall back to the `limits` specified. The `limits` is the upper bound limit of your microservice process, meaning that can operate in less resources and protect Kubernetes to assign bigger usage and protect from possible resource exhaustion.
```

[[scaling-on-kubernetes]]
= Scaling {agent} on kubernetes

For more information on how to deploy Elastic Agent in Kubernetes please advise below pages:

- How to run the {agent} on <<running-on-kubernetes-managed-by-fleet>>.
- How to run the {agent} on <<running-on-kubernetes-standalone>>.

[discrete]
== Observability under scale

This document will try to summarise the key factors and best practises for using https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/welcome-to-elastic/current/getting-started-kubernetes.html[Elastic Observability] to monitor Kubernetes infrastructure at scale. Users need to consider different parameters and adjust Elastic Stack accordingly. The following elements are being affected as the size of Kubernetes cluster increases:

- The amount of metrics being collected from several kubernetes endpoints

> - The agent's resources to cope up with the higher CPU and Memory needed for internal processesing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The agent's resources to cope up with the higher CPU and Memory needed for internal processing
```

- The ElasticSearch resources due to higher rate of metric ingestion needs
- The Dashboard's Visualisations response times as more data are requested on a given time window 

The document is divided in two main sections:

- [Configuration practises](#configuration-practises) 

> - [Validation and Troubleshooting practises](#validation-and-roubleshooting-practises)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Validation and Troubleshooting practices](#validation-and-troubleshooting-practices)
```

Author: Outdated was fixed

[discrete]

> == Configuration Practises

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Configuration Practices
```

Author: Done

[discrete]
=== Specifying resources and limits in Agent manifests

Based on our tests we advise to configure only the `limit` section of the `resources` section in the manifest. In this way the `request`'s settings of the `resources` will fall back to the `limits` specified. The `limits` is the upper bound limit of your microservice process, meaning that can operate in less resources and protect Kubernetes to assign bigger usage and protect from possible resource exhaustion.

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------
resources:
    limits:
      cpu: "1000m"
      memory: "200Mi"
------------------------------------------------

Based on our [tests](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/blob/7467fd72bccab9a0e1b0adc1761cde8520390943/docs/elastic-agent-scaling-tests.md), the following table provides guidelines to adjust {agent} limits on different kubernetes sizes:

> Sampe Elastic Agent Configurations:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sample Elastic Agent Configurations:
```

|===
| No of Pods in K8s Cluster | Leader Agent Resources | Rest of Agents 
| 1000   | cpu: "1500m",  memory: "800Mi" | cpu: "300m",  memory: "600Mi" 

> | 3000   | cpu: "2000m",  memory: "1000Mi" | cpu: "400m",  memory: "800Mi" 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| 3000   | cpu: "3000m",  memory: "25000Mi" | cpu: "400m",  memory: "800Mi" 
```

> | 3000   | cpu: "2000m",  memory: "1000Mi" | cpu: "400m",  memory: "800Mi" 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| 3000   | cpu: "2000m",  memory: "1500Mi" | cpu: "400m",  memory: "800Mi" 
```

| 5000   | cpu: "3000m",  memory: "2500Mi" | cpu: "500m",  memory: "900Mi" 
| 10000  | cpu: "3400m",  memory: "4500Mi" | cpu: "700m",  memory: "1000Mi" 
|===

> Above tests run with {agent} version 8.7 and scraping period of 10sec in Kubernetes Policy. Those numbers are just indicators and should be validated per different kubernetes policy configuration, along with applications that the kubernetes cluster might include

[discrete]
=== Proposed Agent Installations for large scale

> Although daemonset installation is simpler, it can not diffrentiate the alternative agent resource requirements depending on the collected metrics. The need for better 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although daemonset installation is simpler, it can not differentiate the alternative agent resource requirements depending on the collected metrics. The need for better 
```

> resource assighnment led us to alternatives installation methods. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
resource assignment led us to alternatives installation methods. 
```

- How to run the {agent} on <<running-on-kubernetes-standalone>>.

[discrete]
== Observability under scale

This document will try to summarize the key factors and best practices for using https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/welcome-to-elastic/current/getting-started-kubernetes.html[Elastic Observability] to monitor Kubernetes infrastructure at scale. Users need to consider different parameters and adjust Elastic Stack accordingly. The following elements are being affected as the size of Kubernetes cluster increases:

- The amount of metrics being collected from several kubernetes endpoints
- The agent's resources to cope up with the higher CPU and Memory needed for internal processing
- The ElasticSearch resources due to higher rate of metric ingestion needs
- The Dashboard's Visualisations response times as more data are requested on a given time window 

The document is divided in two main sections:

- <<configuration-practices,Configuration practices>>
- <<validation-and-troubleshooting-practices,Validation and Troubleshooting practices>>

[discrete]
[[configuration-practices]]
== Configuration Practices

[discrete]
=== Configure Agent Resources

> The kubernetes observability is based on https://docs.elastic.co/en/integrations/kubernetes[kubernetes integration], which is fetching metrics from several components:

Reviewer: Feel free to reject this one but I think "collect" is a better term to use here.

> The kubernetes observability is based on https://docs.elastic.co/en/integrations/kubernetes[kubernetes integration], which is fetching metrics from several components:

Author: done

- **Per node:**
  - kubelet
  - controller-manager
  - scheduler
  - proxy
- **Cluster Wide (i.e. unique metrics for the whole cluster):**
  - kube-state-metrics
  - apiserver

> The Elastic Agent manifest is deployed by default as daemonset. That said, each elastic agent by default is being deployed on every node of the Kubernetes cluster. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The default manifest provided deploys elastic agent as DaemonSet which results in an elastic agent being deployed on every node of the Kubernetes cluster. 
```

> Additionally, by default one agent is elected as **leader**(for more information visit <<kubernetes_leaderelection-provider>>). This is configured in our https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/blob/main/deploy/kubernetes/elastic-agent-standalone-kubernetes.yaml#L32[manifests]. The Agent Pod which holds the leadership lock will be responsible for also collecting the cluster wide metrics in addition to its node's metrics.

Reviewer: The link `https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/blob/main/deploy/kubernetes/elastic-agent-standalone-kubernetes.yaml#L32` can become invalid in the future if we change the specific line, right?

Author: I will remove it. Does not give sth important

Author: removed

--
[role="screenshot"]
image::../images/k8sscaling.png[Agent as daemonset]
--

The above schema explains how {agent} collects and sends metrics to Elasticsearch. Because of Leader Agent being responsible to also collecting cluster-lever metrics, this means that it requires additional resources.

> Daemonset deployment approach simplifies the installation of the {agent} because we define less Kubernetes Resources in our manifest and we only need one single Agent policy for our Agents. Hence it is the default supported method for <<running-on-kubernetes-managed-by-fleet, Managed Elastic Agent installation>>

Reviewer 3: The DaemonSet deployment approach with leader election simplifies the installation ...

> Daemonset deployment approach simplifies the installation of the {agent} because we define less Kubernetes Resources in our manifest and we only need one single Agent policy for our Agents. Hence it is the default supported method for <<running-on-kubernetes-managed-by-fleet, Managed Elastic Agent installation>>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The DaemonSet deployment approach with leader election simplifies the installation of the {agent} because we define less Kubernetes Resources in our manifest and we only need one single Agent policy for our Agents. Hence it is the default supported method for <<running-on-kubernetes-managed-by-fleet, Managed Elastic Agent installation>>
```

[discrete]
=== Specifying resources and limits in Agent manifests

> Based on our tests we advise to configure only the `limit` section of the `resources` section in the manifest. In this way the `request`'s settings of the `resources` will fall back to the `limits` specified. The `limits` is the upper bound limit of your microservice process, meaning that can operate in less resources and protect Kubernetes to assign bigger usage and protect from possible resource exhaustion.

Reviewer 3: This is a bit hard to relate in a doc like this so instead I think we should say there are the things you need to consider: resourcing and the scheduling priority and maybe mention what can go wrong if you under-resource or you set the wrong priority.

Author: I have updated @pjbertels . Now?

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------
resources:
    limits:
      cpu: "1000m"
      memory: "200Mi"
------------------------------------------------

Based on our https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/blob/7467fd72bccab9a0e1b0adc1761cde8520390943/docs/elastic-agent-scaling-tests.md[tests], the following table provides guidelines to adjust {agent} limits on different kubernetes sizes:

Sample Elastic Agent Configurations:
|===
| No of Pods in K8s Cluster | Leader Agent Resources | Rest of Agents 
| 1000   | cpu: "1500m",  memory: "800Mi" | cpu: "300m",  memory: "600Mi" 
| 3000   | cpu: "2000m",  memory: "1500Mi" | cpu: "400m",  memory: "800Mi" 
| 5000   | cpu: "3000m",  memory: "2500Mi" | cpu: "500m",  memory: "900Mi" 
| 10000  | cpu: "3000m",  memory: "3600Mi" | cpu: "700m",  memory: "1000Mi" 
|===

> > Above tests run with {agent} version 8.7 and scraping period of 10sec in Kubernetes Policy. Those numbers are just indicators and should be validated per different kubernetes policy configuration, along with applications that the kubernetes cluster might include

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The above tests were performed with {agent} version 8.7 and scraping period of `10sec` (period setting for the Kubernetes integration). Those numbers are just indicators and should be validated for each different kubernetes environment and amount of workloads.
```

[discrete]
=== Proposed Agent Installations for large scale

> Although daemonset installation is simpler, it can not differentiate the alternative agent resource requirements depending on the collected metrics. The need for better 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Although daemonset installation is simple, it can not accomodate the varying agent resource requirements depending on the collected metrics. The need for appropriate resource assignment at large scale requires more granular installation methods.

Elastic Agent deployment is broken in groups as follows:
- a dedicated elastic agent deployment of a single agent for collecting cluster wide metrics from the apiserver
- Node level elastic agents(no leader agent) in a Daemonset 
- kube-state-metrics shards and elastic agents in the StatefulSet defined in the kube-state-metrics autosharding manifest
 
Each of these groups of elastic agents will have its own policy specific to its function and can be resourced independently to its specific resource requirements.

```

resource assignment led us to alternatives installation methods. 

> IMPORTANT: The main suggestion for big scale clusters *is to install Elastic Agent as side container with Kube State Metrics Shard*. The installation is explained in details https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/tree/909b09def863205ae928f440d04851494c8e9933/docs/manifests/kustomize-autosharding[here]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: The main suggestion for big scale clusters *is to install Elastic Agent as side container along with `kube-state-metrics` Shard*. The installation is explained in details https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/tree/909b09def863205ae928f440d04851494c8e9933/docs/manifests/kustomize-autosharding[here]
```

Reviewer: Btw is the link valid?

> In general **3 alternative configuration methods** to deploy elastic-agent in big scale Kubernetes clusters with Kube State Metrics (KSM) in sharding configuration have been verified:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following **3 alternative configuration methods** have been verified:
```

1. With `hostNetwork:false` 
  - Elastic Agent as Side Container within KSM Shard pod
  - For non-leader Elastic Agent deployments that collect per KSM shards
2. With `podAntiAffinity` to isolate the Elastic Agent daemonset pods from rest of deployments

> 3. With `taint/tolerations` to isolate the Elastic Agent daemonset pods from rest of deployments

Reviewer 3: I'm unclear if these 2 and 3 even work without resulting in pods stuck in pending state.

Author: Let me provide some examples for 2 and 3 and maybe we can remove the 2 ?

Author: So I have repeated the tests and added examples here https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/blob/0ea3b3ed1da29d47dcd707a75cf837c9be07ba08/docs/elastic-agent-ksm-sharding.md

For 2 Affinity:
Indeed the pod will **remain** in Pending state. The antiaffinity mather is `requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:`, so it will schedule it but will ignore the the Exucution,thus it will remain in pending state

```bash
❯ kgp -A | grep elastic
kube-system   elastic-agent-64ctk                                              1/1     Running   0          4m44s
kube-system   elastic-agent-8db69556b-6t4qv                                    1/1     Running   0          4m48s
kube-system   elastic-agent-cj2zk                                              1/1     Running   0          4m44s
kube-system   elastic-agent-rlnqk                                              1/1     Running   0          4m44s
kube-system   elastic-agent-tt5lg                                              1/1     Running   0          4m44s
kube-system   elastic-agent-txxfp                                              0/1     Pending   0          4m44s
```

So I agree, do you think shall we remove completely the antiafinity configuation?

For 3 Tolerations:
The pod you define as taint is not available at all. So we have no pods in pending state

So it looks like:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n kube-system| grep elastic
elastic-agent-2jw86                                              1/1     Running   0          4m33s
elastic-agent-56cfc5759-7bmz7                                    1/1     Running   0          4m11s     < This is the deployment Agent
elastic-agent-65f59                                              1/1     Running   0          4m33s
elastic-agent-8j9t6                                              1/1     Running   0          4m33s
elastic-agent-b5mgk                                              1/1     Running   0          4m33s
elastic-agent-fn5tt                                              1/1     Running   0          4m33s
elastic-agent-g4m92                                              1/1     Running   0          4m33s
elastic-agent-h4wbc                                              1/1     Running   0          4m33s
```

So I guess we can keep only taint as more complex example. Lets agree on tomorrow sync and I will update the docs

Author: @pjbertels I have removed affinity configurations from all docs

For more information, please advise https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/blob/ksmsharding/docs/elastic-agent-ksm-sharding.md[following guide]

Based on our https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/blob/7467fd72bccab9a0e1b0adc1761cde8520390943/docs/elastic-agent-scaling-tests.md[tests], the following table provides number of KSM sharding configuration per different kubernetes sizes:

The following table aims to assist users on how to configure their KSM Sharding as Kubernetes cluster scales:
|===
| No of Pods in K8s Cluster | No of KSM Shards | Agent Resources
| 1000   | No Sharding can be handled with default KSM config | limits: memory: 700Mi , cpu:500m 
| 3000   | 4 Shards | limits: memory: 1400Mi , cpu:1500m 
| 5000   | 6 Shards | limits: memory: 1400Mi , cpu:1500m 
| 10000  | 8 Shards | limits: memory: 1400Mi , cpu:1500m 
|===

> > Above tests run with {agent} version 8.8 + TSDB Enabled and scraping period of 10sec in Kubernetes Policy. Those numbers are just indicators and should be validated per different kubernetes policy configuration, along with applications that the kubernetes cluster might include

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The tests above were performed with {agent} version 8.8 + TSDB Enabled and scraping period of `10sec` (for the Kubernetes integration). Those numbers are just indicators and should be validated per different kubernetes policy configuration, along with applications that the kubernetes cluster might include
```
Please tune according to the other similar one.

[[scaling-on-kubernetes]]
= Scaling {agent} on kubernetes

> For more information on how to deploy Elastic Agent on Kubernetes please advise the pages below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on how to deploy Elastic Agent on Kubernetes please review the pages below:
```

[[scaling-on-kubernetes]]
= Scaling {agent} on kubernetes

> For more information on how to deploy Elastic Agent on Kubernetes please review the pages below:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For more information on how to deploy Elastic Agent on Kubernetes, please review these pages:
```

> - How to run the {agent} on <<running-on-kubernetes-managed-by-fleet>>.
> - How to run the {agent} on <<running-on-kubernetes-standalone>>.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- <<running-on-kubernetes-managed-by-fleet>>.
- <<running-on-kubernetes-standalone>>.
```

Reviewer 4: ^^ I believe that this is what you're going for. When you use an internal link (`<<section-id>>`) without additional text, you get the topic title subbed in for the link. 

With current formatting, you're getting this: 

<img width="783" alt="Screen Shot 2023-06-12 at 5 17 41 PM" src="https://github.com/elastic/ingest-docs/assets/35154725/8e3bc753-427f-4c22-ae94-cb334af59e7c">

[discrete]
== Observability at scale

> This document will try to summarize the key factors and best practices for using https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/welcome-to-elastic/current/getting-started-kubernetes.html[Elastic Observability] to monitor Kubernetes infrastructure at scale. Users need to consider different parameters and adjust Elastic Stack accordingly. The following elements are being affected as the size of Kubernetes cluster increases:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This document summarizes some key factors and best practices for using https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/welcome-to-elastic/current/getting-started-kubernetes.html[Elastic {observability}] to monitor {k8s} infrastructure at scale. Users need to consider different parameters and adjust {stack} accordingly. These elements are affected as the size of {k8s} cluster increases:
```

- The amount of metrics being collected from several kubernetes endpoints
- The Agent's resources to cope with the high CPU and Memory needs for the internal processing
- The ElasticSearch resources needed due to the higher rate of metric ingestion

> - The Dashboard's Visualisations response times as more data are requested on a given time window 

Reviewer 4: We try to use attributes for consistency and to help us avoid human errors like typos, etc.  The attributes we use are here: https://github.com/elastic/docs/blob/master/shared/attributes.asciidoc

The document is divided in two main sections:

- <<configuration-practices,Configuration Best Practices>>

> - <<validation-and-troubleshooting-practices,Validation and Troubleshooting methods>>

Reviewer 4: Links use the heading title as link text by default. You don't have to enter it unless you want to change it for some reason.

[discrete]
[[configuration-practices]]

> == Configuration Best Practices

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
== Configuration best practices
```

Reviewer 4: The Elastic writing standard is to use sentence case capitalization (not initial caps)

[discrete]
=== Configure Agent Resources

> The kubernetes observability is based on https://docs.elastic.co/en/integrations/kubernetes[kubernetes integration], which collects metrics from several components:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The {observability} for {k8s}  is based on the https://docs.elastic.co/en/integrations/kubernetes[{k8s} integration], which collects metrics from several components:
```

Reviewer 4: "Kubernetes Observability" makes it sound like a product that Kubernetes is offering.  Maybe something like "Observability for Kubernetes" instead?

> 
> - **Per node:**
>   - kubelet
>   - controller-manager

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

* **Per node:**
** kubelet
** controller-manager
```

... and so forth.  I believe that this is the formatting that you were expecting to see.  With current formatting, it's rendering like this: 

<img width="668" alt="Screen Shot 2023-06-12 at 5 40 31 PM" src="https://github.com/elastic/ingest-docs/assets/35154725/3d6cfa18-23e5-4348-a145-6c851436dc83">

>   - scheduler
>   - proxy
> - **Cluster Wide (i.e. unique metrics for the whole cluster):**
>   - kube-state-metrics
>   - apiserver

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
** scheduler
** proxy
* **Cluster wide (such as unique metrics for the whole cluster):**
** kube-state-metrics
** apiserver
```

> > Controller manager and Scheduler datastreams are being enableb only to the specific node that actually run based on autodiscovery rules

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Controller manager and Scheduler datastreams are being enabled only on the specific node that actually runs based on autodiscovery rules
```

> The default manifest provided deploys elastic agent as DaemonSet which results in an elastic agent being deployed on every node of the Kubernetes cluster. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The default manifest provided deploys {agent} as DaemonSet which results in an {agent} being deployed on every node of the {k8s} cluster. 
```

- Node level elastic agents(no leader agent) in a Daemonset 

- kube-state-metrics shards and elastic agents in the StatefulSet defined in the kube-state-metrics autosharding manifest
 
Each of these groups of elastic agents will have its own policy specific to its function and can be resourced independently in the appropriate manifest to accomodate its specific resource requirements.

resource assignment led us to alternatives installation methods. 

IMPORTANT: The main suggestion for big scale clusters *is to install Elastic Agent as side container along with `kube-state-metrics` Shard*. The installation is explained in details https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/tree/909b09def863205ae928f440d04851494c8e9933/docs/manifests/kustomize-autosharding[here]

The following ** alternative configuration methods** have been verified:

1. With `hostNetwork:false` 
  - Elastic Agent as Side Container within KSM Shard pod
  - For non-leader Elastic Agent deployments that collect per KSM shards
2. With `taint/tolerations` to isolate the Elastic Agent daemonset pods from rest of deployments

> For more information, please advise https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/blob/ksmsharding/docs/elastic-agent-ksm-sharding.md[following guide]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can find more information in the document called https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/blob/ksmsharding/docs/elastic-agent-ksm-sharding.md[{agent} Manifests in order to support Kube-State-Metrics Sharding].
```
